A database model is a model through which we perceive data in the database.


Document Stores
One of the most popular types of NoSQL databases is Document stores, which revolves around the concept of a document.

**Documents are self-describing structures and usually similar to each other, but they don’t have to be the same**.

Unlike the rows in relational databases, where every row has to follow the same schema, documents can vary from each other and still belong to the same collection.

MongoDB and Couchbase are examples of document stores.


# Why Choose NoSQL?
There are two main reasons why engineers choose NoSQL databases for their problems:

Minimizing the Impedance Mismatch
Since a lot of effort is spent on mapping in-memory to in-database, saving that effort improves developer productivity.

Sometimes, a NoSQL database has a data model that better suits the needs of our application, and thus simplifies the interaction of the application code with the database. This way, we have less code to develop and maintain.

For example, in MEAN stack (M is for Mongo DB) the whole stack uses JSON objects, and the interaction of application code and database is minimal.

Embracing large scale data
Today it is very time-consuming to store a large amount of data in the relational databases. Businesses have a need to capture and process a lot of data more quickly because many NoSQL databases are designed to run on clusters, which are a better fit for this kind of problem.

Large scale clusters give us the ability to store larger data sets and process large amounts of analytic data. Also, NoSQL databases have different data models that may be better for processing huge amounts of data.

Does this mean that relational databases are dead?

No, not at all. The relational data model is still the best choice for a large number of problems out there. Additionally, relational databases have been here for decades, which means that there are many tools for them and people are familiar with them, unlike the fairly new concept of NoSQL database.

 MongoDB Documents
MongoDB is a document-oriented database and, as previously mentioned, it has certain similarities to relational databases.

Instead of rows, MongoDB has documents. Unlike relational databases, where information for a given record is spread across many tables, all of the data for a given record is stored within a single document.

Under the hood, documents are BSON files, which are the bin­ary-en­coded seri­al­iz­a­tion of JSON files. Nevertheless, from a programmer’s point of view, MongoDB manipulates pure JSON files.

For example, we can represent user like this:


```js
{
    "_id" : ObjectId("58e28d41b1ad7d0c5cd27549"),
    "name" : "Nikola Zivkovic",
    "blog" : "rubikscode.net",
    "numberOfArticles" : 10,
    "Adress" : [
        "street" : "some street",
        "city" : "Novi Sad",
        "country" : "Serbia"
        ],
    "company" : "Vega IT Sourcing",
    "expertise" : [".NET", "JavaScript", "NoSQL", "Node.js"]
}
```

As you can see:

there is an _id field at the beginning of this JSON document.
This field is unique and is generated by MongoDB for every document in the database.

This way MongoDB keeps one of the important properties of relational databases – strong consistency.





